# Probability-and-Random-Variable
Mobile Robot Location using Hidden Markov Model

Background: In the past decade robots have rapidly evolved, from being used in factory to use in military and medical fields. Because of their reliability they have started to replace humans in many tasks. But their future as our companion depends mainly on their ability to understand, interpret and represent their surrounding environment efficiently. For any autonomous robot its most important task is to be able to navigate itself through its environ- ment.For this mobile robots, machines which navigate around their environment accessing data from their sensors and performing actions based on the data came to use. 
• Importance of Topic: Mobility, the moment of any robots is almost pointless without the ability to navigate. For any mobile robot navigation it follows 3 processes- Mapping, Localization, Navigation. Navigation is one of the most challenging competencies required of a mobile robot. But for navigation, the current position must be known. The frequent question is that , where is the robot?. The process of knowing the location is Localization. Any application cannot work if the current location of robot is unknown. Unknown location would lead to problem in performing the task at hand. Till date many algorithms are kept forward for Localization. For the given scenario we are going to use Markov Localization. It is one of the reliable way of knowing the location. The reason to use it is that through this process one can incorporate raw sensor readings. Also it does not require predefined locations. Thus the reason to work on Markov localization is that given a map of its environment, through this it would be able to localise itself without knowing its initial position. 
• Inference: In the given method the current position is determined given the model of the environment. In this process there is no need to have a single hypothesis of where in the world the robot is. Here the only requirement is maintaining a probability distribution over space of all such hypothesis. Firstly the environment is divided in various states, generally in form of grid. At each moment the probability of each state in the entire space is updated. The random variable considered for localization is the state of robot which changes everytime new data is received by the sensors. The space is represented in form of points, (x,y,θ) where x,y is the position and θ is the orientation of the robot. The orientation depends on the robots design. At first the prediction is done by using the belief position. In the second step the correction is done, that is refining the belief state. All this is done with 2 assumptions. First, Measurement error can be described by a distribution with a mean . Second,Non-zero chance for any measurement.All this can be then found by a MATLAB code. 
• References: 
1. Dieter Foxyz, Wolfram Burgardy , and Sebastian Thrunz yUniversity of Bonn, Department of Computer Science III, Bonn, Germany zCarnegie Mellon University, School of Computer Science, Pittsburgh, PA - ”Markov Localization for Reliable Robot Navigation and People Detection.” 
1 
2. Klaas Gadeyne, Herman Bruyninckx Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven, Belgium-”Markov techniques for object localization with force -controlled robots” 

